Simulation (#10)
osrf/ros2multirobotbook: src/simulation.md

This chapter will describe how to generate building models from the
`traffic-editor` files and simulate fleets of robots in them.

## Motivation

Simulation environments for testing robotic solutions offer immense value across
various stages of R&D and deployment. More notably, simulations provide the
following benefits.

- **Time and resource saving:** While testing with hardware is indispensible,
  the process can slow the pace of development with additional setup time, robot
  downtime and and reset time periods between trials. As the number of
  participants scale, so do costs associated with purchasing hardware and
  consumables for testing. This is especially true with solutions such as RMF
  which aim to integrate several mobile/stationary robots, and building systems

>   such as doors and lifts. Simulations provide a cost effective and time saving

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  such as doors and lifts. Simulations provide a potentially cost effective and time saving
```

  alternative for evaluating the behavior of robot systems at scale. More

>   importantly simulations can help answer questions with deployment such as how

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  importantly simulations can help answer questions prior to deployment such as how
```

  many participants can be supported or how the existing behavior would change
  with the introduction of a new fleet, both of which can inform purchasing
  decisions for facility owners. 

> - **Robust testing:** Robots in simulation do not run out of battery. Scenarios

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Robust testing:** Robots in simulation do not run out of battery and don't cost any money if your robots happen to unfortunately crash into something. Scenarios
```

  can be tested for hours at a stretch, at faster speeds, to fine tune

>   algorithms and verify their robustness. As scenarios in simulation are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  algorithms and verify their robustness. One factor on how much scenario testing to run is a decision on how much compute power you want to avail for the simulation. With the introduction of cloud simulation, this limit is then a trade off of cost and speed as well. As scenarios in simulation are
```

  repeatable, fixes for undesirable bugs encountered can be readily validated.
  Reaction of the system to edge cases which are rare but have severe
  consequences can also be studied through simulation. Data logged from hardware
  trials can be used to recreate the scenario in simulation which may be helpful
  for debugging. Lastly, long running simulations can instill confidence in
  facility owners.

Physics-based simulators such as `Gazebo`, carry the benefit of easily
interfacing with ROS2 nodes through wrappers provided by `gazebo_ros_pkgs`.
Gazebo plugins can be developed that accurately emulate the behavior of robots,
sensors and infrastructure systems which enhance the overall fidelity of

> simulations. It is worth emphasizing here that the code used to run simulations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simulations. It is worth emphasizing here that the exact same code used to run the simulations
```

> will be run on physical hardware as well without any changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will also be run on the physical system as well without any changes.
```

However, despite these compelling benefits, simulations are sparingly employed
by developers and system integrators citing complexity over generating

> environments and configuring them with appropriate plugins. The RMF project also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
environments and configuring them with appropriate plugins. In a recent publication "_A Study on the Challenges of Using Robotics Simulators for Testing_," by Afsoon Afzal, Deborah S. Katz, Claire Le Goues and Christopher S. Timperley they noted the main reasons participants gave for not using simulation for a particular project and summarized their findings as follows:

| Reason for not using simulation  | #  | %  |
|---|---|---|
| Lack of time or resources | 15 | 53.57% |
| Not realistic/accurate enough | 15 | 53.57% |
| Lack of expertise or knowledge on how to use software-based simulation | 6  | 21.43% |
| There was no simulator for the robot | 4  | 14.29% |
| Not applicable | 4  | 14.29% |
| Too much time or compute resources | 2  | 7.14%  |
| Nobody suggested it | 0  | 0.00%  |
| Other | 2  | 7.14%  |

The RMF project also
```

Reviewer: Not sure why this table isn't formatting correctly yet...

aims to address these hurdles by simplifying the process of setting up

> simulation environments for multi-fleet traffic control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simulation environments for multi-fleet traffic control as we will explain further throughout this section.
```

## Building Map Generator

## RMF Assets and Plugins

> Assets play a pivotal role in recreating environments in simulation. Over the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assets play a pivotal role in recreating environments in simulation. Fortunately there are 
```

> course of the RMF project, several 3D models of robots, mechanical

Reviewer: ```suggestion
projects such as RMF, SubT and others which allow developers to create and open source 3D models of robots, mechanical
```

> infrastructure systems and scene objects have been open sourced. They are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
infrastructure systems and scene objects. They are
```

available for download [here](https://app.ignitionrobotics.org/OpenRobotics/fuel/collections/Hospital).
Beyond imparting visual accuracy, assets may be dynamic and interface with rmf
core systems through the aid of plugins. 

To simulate the behavior of hardware such as robot models and infrastructure
systems(doors & lifts), several Gazebo plugins have been architected. These
plugins are derivates of the [ModelPlugin](http://osrf-distributions.s3.amazonaws.com/gazebo/api/dev/classgazebo_1_1ModelPlugin.html)
class and tie in standard ROS2 and rmf_core messages to provide the necessary
functionality. The following sections briefly describe some of these plugins.

#### Robots

> As highlighted earlier, several robot models (MiR100, Magni, Hospi) have been

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As highlighted earlier, several robot models (SESTO, MiR100, Magni, Hospi) have been
```

    </collision>
    <inertial>
      <mass>50.0</mass>
      <inertia>
        <ixx>20.17041666666667</ixx>
        <iyy>23.36846728119012</iyy>
        <izz>3.20555061452345</izz>
      </inertia>
    </inertial>
  </link>
  <joint name="left_joint" type="revolute">
    <parent>world</parent>
    <child>left</child>
    <axis>
      <xyz>0 0 1</xyz>
      <limit>
        <lower>-1.57</lower>
        <upper>0</upper>
      </limit>
    </axis>
    <pose>0.44330130831587417 0 0 0 0 0</pose>
  </joint>
</model>
```

The door [plugin](https://github.com/osrf/traffic_editor/blob/master/building_gazebo_plugins/src/door.cpp) responds to `DoorRequest` messages with `door_name` matching its `model name` sdf tag. These messages are published over the `/door_requests` topic. The plugin is agnostic of the type of door defined and relies on the `left_joint_name` and `right_joint_name` parameters to determine which joints to actuate during open and close motions. During these motions, the joints are commanded to their appropriate limits which are specified in the parent element. The joint motions follow similar acceleration and deceleration profiles as in the `slotcar`. 
 

#### Lifts

> #### Dispensers

Reviewer: Are we calling these "Dispensers" or "Workcells"?

Author: I guess "Dispensers" are a class of "Workcells". Happy to modify however to be consistent with the rest of the book.

> A common scenario of interest is that of robots performing deliveries where a payload is loaded onto the robot at one location and the unloaded at another.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A common scenario of interest is that of robots performing deliveries where a payload is loaded onto a robot at one location and then unloaded at another. These load and unload tasks can involve robot manipulator actions as well.
```

Author: The comment seems to be on an outdated version.
